add new docs for hybrid projecs (#7117)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/deploy/hybrid-projects.md

---
title: "About Hybrid projects"
sidebar_label: "About Hybrid projects"
description: "Learn how to upload dbt Core artifacts into dbt Cloud to create and set up hybrid projects."
pagination_next: "docs/deploy/hybrid-setup"
---

# About Hybrid projects <Lifecycle status='beta,enterprise'/>

<IntroText>

> With Hybrid projects, organizations that adopt a complementary dbt Core and dbt Cloud workflow (where some teams develop and run dbt projects in dbt Core while others use dbt Cloud) can now seamlessly integrate their workflows by automatically uploading dbt Core [artifacts](/reference/artifacts/dbt-artifacts) into dbt Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Hybrid projects, your organization can adopt complementary dbt Core and dbt Cloud workflows (where some teams develop and run dbt projects in dbt Core while others use dbt Cloud) and seamlessly integrate these workflows by automatically uploading dbt Core [artifacts](/reference/artifacts/dbt-artifacts) into dbt Cloud.
```

</IntroText>

:::tip Available in private beta

> Hybrid project is available in private beta to [dbt Cloud Enterprise accounts](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing). To register your interest in the beta, reach out to your account representative.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hybrid projects is available in private beta to [dbt Cloud Enterprise accounts](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing). To register your interest in the beta, reach out to your account representative.
```

:::

> dbt Core users can seamlessly upload [artifacts](/reference/artifacts/dbt-artifacts) like [run results.json](/reference/artifacts/run-results-json), [manifest.json](/reference/artifacts/manifest-json), [catalog.json](/reference/artifacts/catalog-json), [sources.json](/reference/artifacts/sources-json), and so on into dbt Cloud after executing a dbt run in the command line interface (CLI). This also helps teams:

Reviewer: I condensed this but in re-reading was not sure if "this" means hybrid projects.
```suggestion
dbt Core users can seamlessly upload [artifacts](/reference/artifacts/dbt-artifacts) like [run results.json](/reference/artifacts/run-results-json), [manifest.json](/reference/artifacts/manifest-json), [catalog.json](/reference/artifacts/catalog-json), [sources.json](/reference/artifacts/sources-json), and so on into dbt Cloud after executing a `dbt run` in the command line interface (CLI), which helps:
```

- Connect teams by bringing visibility so everyone can use dbt Core-generated artifacts in dbt Cloud.
- Enhance collaboration by sharing model metadata, dependencies, and run history across teams using dbt Cloud.
- Enable teams that work in dbt Core and dbt Cloud, particularly in [dbt Mesh](/best-practices/how-we-mesh/mesh-1-intro) hybrid workflows, so that if an organization runs dbt Core locally or with external orchestration tools (like Airflow, Dagster), they can still collaborate with dbt Cloud.

## Prerequisites

> To upload artifacts, make sure you meeting the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upload artifacts, make sure you meet these prerequisites:
```

- Your organization is on a [dbt Cloud Enterprise plan](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing)
- You're on [dbt Cloud's release tracks](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) or dbt Core v1.10 and higher
- Enabled the hybrid projects toggle in dbt Cloud’s **[Account settings](/docs/cloud/account-settings)** page
- [Configured](/docs/deploy/hybrid-setup#connect-project-in-dbt-cloud) a hybrid project in dbt Cloud.

> - Existing dbt Core project with latest changes and [configured with model access](/docs/deploy/hybrid-setup#make-dbt-core-models-public):

Reviewer: I made a few suggestions trying to make the list parallel so it's easier to digest / glance through. Also thought about using present, but this works too!
```suggestion
- Updated your existing dbt Core project with latest changes and [configured it with model access](/docs/deploy/hybrid-setup#make-dbt-core-models-public):
```

>     - Models that you want to share with other dbt Cloud projects must use `access: public` in their model configuration. This makes the models more discoverable and shareable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Ensure models that you want to share with other dbt Cloud projects use `access: public` in their model configuration. This makes the models more discoverable and shareable.
```

    - Learn more about [access modifier](/docs/collaborate/govern/model-access#access-modifiers) and how to set the [`access` config](/reference/resource-configs/access).

> - [dbt Cloud permissions](/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions) to create a new project in dbt Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update [dbt Cloud permissions](/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions) to create a new project in dbt Cloud.
```

> - Note, uploading artifacts won't count again dbt Cloud run slots.

Reviewer: We could make this an improper note. A callout feels too heavy handed. 
```suggestion
**Note:** Uploading artifacts doesn't count against dbt Cloud run slots.
```

description: "Learn how to upload dbt Core artifacts into dbt Cloud to create and set up hybrid projects."
pagination_next: "docs/deploy/hybrid-setup"
---

# About Hybrid projects <Lifecycle status='beta,enterprise'/>

<IntroText>
With Hybrid projects, your organization can adopt complementary dbt Core and dbt Cloud workflows (where some teams develop projects in dbt Core and others in dbt Cloud) and seamlessly integrate these workflows by automatically uploading dbt Core [artifacts](/reference/artifacts/dbt-artifacts) into dbt Cloud.
</IntroText>

:::tip Available in private beta
Hybrid projects is available in private beta to [dbt Cloud Enterprise accounts](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing). To register your interest in the beta, reach out to your account representative.
:::

dbt Core users can seamlessly upload [artifacts](/reference/artifacts/dbt-artifacts) like [run results.json](/reference/artifacts/run-results-json), [manifest.json](/reference/artifacts/manifest-json), [catalog.json](/reference/artifacts/catalog-json), [sources.json](/reference/artifacts/sources-json), and so on &mdash; into dbt Cloud after executing a run in the command line interface (CLI), which helps:

> - Connect teams by bringing visibility so everyone can use dbt Core-generated artifacts in dbt Cloud.

Reviewer 2: super nit, I don't think sharing artifacts themselves is what users really want, its the next point, sharing model metadata etc.

Reviewer 3: I don't know if these are quite the right bullet points. What we really want is something about cross project, something about explore, and something about the visual editor. So some version of:

1. Cloud users can visualize and create cross-project references to dbt models that live in Core projects
2. (coming soon) New users interested in the Visual Editor can build off of dbt models already created by a central data team in Core rather than having to start from scratch
3. Core users can visualize their models and interact with metadata across the entire project in Explore

Reviewer 3: Which I now see is similar to the ones on the other page. But maybe that's fine? This is the first thing people are going to see on this main page, so I want us to put our best foot forward on the value of the feature :)

> - Enhance collaboration by sharing model metadata, dependencies, and run history across teams using dbt Cloud.

Reviewer 2: I didn't think of it this way but sharing run history is a great point! Using hybrid projects, the teams that are using dbt-cloud will gain visibility into core executions (if they have the right access).

- Enable teams that work in dbt Core and dbt Cloud, particularly in [dbt Mesh](/best-practices/how-we-mesh/mesh-1-intro) hybrid workflows, so that if an organization runs dbt Core locally or with external orchestration tools &mdash; they can still collaborate with dbt Cloud.

## Prerequisites

To upload artifacts, make sure you meet these prerequisites:

- Your organization is on a [dbt Cloud Enterprise plan](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing)

> - You're on [dbt Cloud's release tracks](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) or dbt Core v1.10 and higher

Reviewer 3: I think this needs to be an AND
1. You are on dbt Cloud's release tracks
2. Your Core project is running on dbt Core v1.10

- Enabled the hybrid projects toggle in dbt Cloud’s **[Account settings](/docs/cloud/account-settings)** page
- [Configured](/docs/deploy/hybrid-setup#connect-project-in-dbt-cloud) a hybrid project in dbt Cloud.

> - Updated your existing dbt Core project with latest changes and [configured it with model access](/docs/deploy/hybrid-setup#make-dbt-core-models-public):

Reviewer 2: should we call out a specific minimum version? @ChenyuLInx which version would have this functionality?

Author: is dbt v1.10 the minimum version?

Reviewer 3: Correct!

    - Ensure models that you want to share with other dbt Cloud projects use `access: public` in their model configuration. This makes the models more discoverable and shareable.
    - Learn more about [access modifier](/docs/collaborate/govern/model-access#access-modifiers) and how to set the [`access` config](/reference/resource-configs/access).
- Update [dbt Cloud permissions](/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions) to create a new project in dbt Cloud.

> **Note:** Uploading artifacts doesn't count against dbt Cloud run slots.

Reviewer 2: excellent callout

Reviewer 3: Don't enterprise plans already have unlimited run slots? This feels confusing to say that they don't count against something that is unlimited

Reviewer 2: Well, its not actually unlimited (nothing is), the upper bound is 1000.
